the new england journal of medicine


Alto, se reconcoce como recognized as the world's leading medical journal and website. Published continuously for over 200 years, NEJM delivers high-quality, peer-reviewe

Cite factor score: 96.2 (https://www.citefactor.org/impact-factor/impact-factor-of-new-england-journal-of-medicine.html)


he objectives of the
trial were to evaluate overall vaccine efficacy against symptomatic, virologically con-
firmed dengue of any serotype occurring more than 28 days after vaccination (the
primary efficacy end point), regardless of serostatus at baseline, and to describe safety
up to day 21. vaccine efficacy was assessed on the
basis of 2 years of follow-up for each participant, and safety as solicited vaccine-related
adverse events reported up to day 21 after injection. 


phase 3, double-blind trial in Brazil, we randomly assigned participants
to receive Butantan-DV or placebo, with stratification according to age (2 to 6 years, 7
to 17 years, and 18 to 59 years); 5 years of follow-up is planned. 

phase 3, randomized,
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, with 5 years
of planned follow-up, being conducted at 16 sites
in Brazil. 

participants underwent randomization accord-
ing to age (2 to 6 years of age, 7 to 17 years of age,
and 18 to 59 years of age) and in a 2:1 ratio to
receive a single dose of Butantan-DV or placebo.


Participants were eligible if they were 2
to 59 years of age and were healthy or had
clinically controlled disease. Key exclusion crite-
ria included immunocompromising conditions,
pregnancy, and previous receipt of a dengue vac-
cine. 


To calculate the sample size for analysis of the
primary end point (vaccine efficacy), we used the
formula developed by Blackwelder26 with Poisson
approximation 

The primary efficacy analysis was
performed in the per-protocol population, 
Safety analyses were performed in the as-
treated population

Vaccine efficacy was determined with the
use of the following formula: vaccine efficacy =
[1−(1+s)θ]÷[1−θ], in which s is the ratio of follow-
up times in the control group to that in the vac-
cine group and θ is the proportion of all dengue
cases that occurred in the vaccine group.

Solicited systemic vaccine- or
placebo-related adverse events within 21 days after injection were more common
with Butantan-DV than with placebo (58.3% of participants, vs. 45.6%).




-----------------------------



MEDICINA (buenos aires)

factor de impacto segun cite factor 0.6 (https://www.citefactor.org/impact-factor/impact-factor-of-medicina-buenos-aires.html)

 This study aims to conduct
a systematic review to evaluate the effectiveness and
safety of the TAK-003 tetravalent dengue vaccine in
this context


A systematic review of randomized controlled trials
comparing the effectiveness and safety of the vaccine
with placebo in the general population was conducted.
The search was carried out in Epistemonikos, and two
researchers independently assessed the studies. Risk
of bias was evaluated using the Cochrane Rob 2 tool.
A meta-analysis of the results was performed, and the
certainty of evidence was assessed using the GRADE
methodology.

 Healthy patients (children and
adults) regardless of their previous exposure
status to the dengue virus


search was conducted in the Epistemonikos
Database.
 All searches covered the period from the
database inception dates until 12/18/2023, with
no restrictions on publication date, status, or
language

Articulos que matcheen el tipo de poblacion e intervencion
The included population consisted primarily of
children, adolescents, and young adults, and the
research was conducted in countries with vary-
ing levels of viral circulation, ranging from high to
low. The follow-up time varied between 9 and 48
months. 
Se excluyeron aquellos articulos que tenian otra intervencion, otra respuesta, un diseño del studio erroneo, o resultados internos


We concluded, with high certainty of evidence,
that the tetravalent dengue vaccine reduces severe
infections (RR 0.17, 95% CI 0.12 to 0.24) and infections
by the dengue virus (RR 0.40, 95% CI 0.36 to 0.45) in a
population ≤17 years. The vaccine may not increase
the risk of serious adverse events, although it is im-
portant to note the low certainty of evidence (RR 1.04,
95% CI: 0.69-1.55).